---
media:
- linkedin-galaxyproject
hashtags:
  linkedin-galaxyproject:
  - UseGalaxy
  - GalaxyProject
  - EOSC
---
The JOBIM conference, the annual event of the French bioinformatics and biostatistic community, brought together researchers, educators, and innovators in bioinformatics to discuss cutting-edge tools, workflows, and collaborative efforts. Among the highlights of this year's event was the significant presence of Galaxy. This blog post explores the key contributions, presentations, and innovations centered around Galaxy at JOBIM 2025.
https://galaxyproject.org/news/2025-07-21-jobim/
![The image depicts a presentation slide about a consortium focused on antibiotic resistance in France. It highlights a collaboration of 43 partners, including various National Reference Centers, aimed at detecting and managing antibiotic resistance. The slide features a map of France with marked locations indicating the consortium's reach. It outlines controlled workflows for antibiotic resistance detection, showcasing tools and software used at different stages such as Quality & Contamination Control, Assembly, Annotation, and AMR Gene Detection, with specific tools like Kraken2, Shovill, and ABRicate mentioned. The platform is powered by Galaxy France and is designed to analyze, store, interconnect, and support the surveillance of antibiotic resistance. Additionally, the slide includes a screenshot of the ABRomics web application interface and a world map showing the distribution of antibiotic resistance samples. The presentation appears to be part of a conference or seminar, with a speaker visible on the right side of the image.](https://galaxyproject.org/assets/static/keynote.938b961.06252afce5280b1912329b05f5a2a57a.png)
![The image depicts a scene at a conference. In the foreground, two individuals are engaged in conversation, with one person pointing upwards, possibly drawing attention to something of interest. Both individuals are wearing lanyards with badges. Above them, a large poster titled 'Breaking Myths: The Reality of Galaxy's Capabilities and Impact' is prominently displayed. The poster is detailed with various sections, each likely describing different aspects or capabilities of the Galaxy platform, and is adorned with logos of associated organizations such as INRAE, IFB, and others. The background shows a few more attendees walking or standing, contributing to the bustling atmosphere of the event.](https://galaxyproject.org/assets/static/misconception_poster.20c07b7.81cc61db95e00d5ead0367dca4990005.jpg)
![The image depicts a woman standing next to a poster presentation at scientific conference. The woman is wearing a light green dress and a lanyard with a name badge. The poster behind her is titled 'A powerful framework for teaching!' and focuses on the Galaxy Training Network (GTN). The poster provides detailed information about the GTN, including its purpose, achievements, and resources. Key points highlighted on the poster include the collection of FAIR (Findable, Accessible, Interoperable, and Reusable) training materials, with statistics such as over 35 topics, 450+ tutorials, contributions from 490+ contributors, and 3,970+ feedback entries. Additionally, the poster mentions the organization of massive, online, and worldwide training events, with over 220 videos, 140+ hours of recordings, and participation from 130+ instructors and 10,000+ registrants. The poster also acknowledges various supporting institutions and projects, such as the Institut Français de Bioinformatique (IFB), Erasmus+, and INRAE. The background shows a busy conference setting with other attendees walking and engaging in discussions.](https://galaxyproject.org/assets/static/gtn_poster.42db587.d19c65ec386a30eefd89ed62335eec44.jpg)
![The image depicts a scene from a conference presentation. Two presenters are standing at the front of a lecture hall, actively engaged in delivering their talk. The presenter on the left is standing behind a podium with a laptop, while the presenter on the right is gesturing towards a projected slide on a large screen behind them. The slide is titled 'Madbot and its plugins' and features a diagram illustrating the interaction between different components such as a data plugin, DublinCore, Zenodo, and ENA (European Nucleotide Archive). The audience, seated and facing the presenters, appears attentive and engaged, with some individuals using laptops. The setting suggests a professional and academic environment focused on scientific or technical discussions.](https://galaxyproject.org/assets/static/madbot.42db587.e97483c1fb648386dbb6c326d64aa4ff.jpg)
![The image depicts a scene at a scientific conference. In the foreground, a man wearing a green t-shirt and a conference lanyard stands next to a poster presentation. The poster, titled 'ABRomics-analysis: Developing Metagenomic Workflows for National Antibiotic Resistance Surveillance Platform,' details a study on antibiotic resistance. It compares genomics and metagenomics, outlining their objectives, sequencing methods, advantages, limitations, and applications. The poster also describes three complementary metagenomic workflows: raw reads, gene collection, and MAG (Metagenome-Assembled Genome) reconstruction, all integrated with the Galaxy platform. The background shows a busy conference environment with other attendees and posters, indicating a professional and academic setting focused on scientific research and collaboration.](https://galaxyproject.org/assets/static/abromics_poster.42db587.dfde46da99dd5e36b697393f020e8232.jpg)
![The image depicts a scene at a scientific conference. In the foreground, a group of attendees is gathered around a poster presentation. The poster, titled 'Building a Standardized Database for Honey Bee Microbiome: Addressing Metadata and Data Comparability Gaps,' is displayed on a metal grid. The poster includes sections such as Background, Problem, Solution, Preliminary Results & Challenges, and Future Directions, detailing the research on honey bee microbiomes. The presenters and attendees appear engaged in discussion, with one woman in a red dress pointing to specific parts of the poster, possibly explaining the research findings or methodology. The background shows a busy conference environment with other attendees walking and engaging in discussions, indicating a professional and academic setting focused on scientific research and collaboration.](https://galaxyproject.org/assets/static/bee_poster.42db587.d1dc4412d27718adbb9b97661a6b66dc.jpg)